Cybernomics is a scientific study of provable control, computing and communication in the intelligent being and between them.

I believe this transdisciplinary field will help to design better [superintelligent systems](/cybernetics/super-intelligence) and build better [applications](/applications) on top. As humanity have never encountered such a phenomenon understanding of the concepts could also help with exploration and comprehension of superintelligence, as well as with reasoning about them.

Cybernomics is refinement of [cybernetics](/cybernetics) in the sense that the majority of methods of cybernomics can be applied to cybernetics, but fundamentals such as [asymmetric cryptography](/cryptography/asymmetrics), [consensus computing](/computing/consensus-computing), [basic proof-systems](/proof-systems/) and [game-theoretic aspects](game-theory), especially in economics have not existed when [cybernetics was born](/cybernetics/weiner-cybernetics.pdf). The biggest shift from cybernetics is in the philosophy though. Cybernomics stand on the solid idea that our universe is [just an instance](/philosophy/simulation.pdf) of some metastable program which runs inside [superintelligent](/cybernetics/super-intelligence) [consensus computer](/computing/consensus-computing). My bet is that this assumption will allow us to make predictions better, no matter how weird they are.

The project is in its infancy. I decide to start from open sourcing my personal library which I structured last 7 years of researching the field. The thing looks very complex. Some areas are well understood by me, some are not. I am going to work on the library as my pet project and hopefully sometimes the thing evolves into the interactive book on cybernomics foundations. My personal incentive is the contribution to [the Great Web idea](https://ipfs.io/ipfs/QmceNpj6HfS81PcCaQXrFMQf7LR5FTLkdG9sbSRNy3UXoZ). You can help to build this foundations also, so don't hesitate - [pull request](https://github.com/xhipster/cybernomics/pulls) waits for you.

You can [surf the library in ipfs](https://ipfs.io/ipfs/QmY8vW6cAw1dGudT1gU71jL5Nqc8kTpYMLwR7jRX7rziCR) also!
